Up the screen is a board game for 2-4 at all ages. The goal is simple: you start at the bottom of the screen, and the goal is to get to your personal goal at the top.

The board has two dimensions: the inner dimension and the outer dimension. The inner dimension consists of the fields where you play the actual game and move your game pieces. The outer dimension is the boarder of the screen, where you place the Action Panels.

The Action Panels are the long “cards” with actions, which you place throughout the game. There are two different types: the long ones, which can be placed on the top and bottom of the board, and the short ones, which can be placed at the sides. The Action Panels differs as you place them either on one side or the other, since you will have to turn them around for them to match the borders. An Arrow Up (move one field forward) will thereby be an Arrow Down if you place it at the other side of the board.

At the beginning of the game, each player takes three Action Panels of each kind – thereby six in all. Every time a player has used an Action Panel, the player must draw a new one to its hand, so that every player has three of each Action Panel type at all times.
To begin the game, place your game piece anywhere at the bottom line of the screen, pointing either left or right. The goal for each player is now to get to the top field above them - meaning the field in the top horizontal row, but in the same vertical row. You can mark this with the goal pieces.
The first player (you might choose this by throwing the dice and letting the highest number start) throws the dice and moves their game piece in the direction it is pointing. The arrow you land on indicates on which boarder you shall place an Action Panel (placing one is obligatory). You have three opportunities – the three matching Action Panels you hold in your hand – and you will want to choose the one that either gives the best outcome for you or the worst for your enemies – preferably both! If you place a horizontal Action Panel, the actions will work vertically – so if you stand in the 3rd vertical row, the 3rd field on the Action Panel will apply to you, and so with all other players on the board. The actions will only apply at the exact time the panel is placed – after that, the panel is discarded and the game goes on (put all discarded Action Panels in a pile, so that you can mix them together and draw from it if you run low on Action Panels).
For example, you might want to give yourself an arrow pointing upwards, so that you will get closer to your goal, and give your enemy a skip turn. You can however also risk to sit with three Action Panels, where the only choices you have are to either do something bad for yourself or good for your enemy. The more players you are, the more difficult is it to do something that will only be good for you.

When you reach the top row, your goal is merely to hit your goal field, while trying not to be thrown farther down the board by your emenies.
